hey what's up guys the explanation pros
here today i'll explain the war drama
film titled downfall spoilers incoming
the film begins with an interview from a
surviving nazi secretary named traudel
younger who admonishes her young self
for being easily swayed by the monstrous
historical figure adolf hitler in the
next scene we are transported back to
november 1942. that night traudel and
the other ladies are being transferred
to the viewers headquarters to be
interviewed for the new position of
secretary without any second thought
hitler immediately chooses throughout a
lot of all the ladies right after this
troddle is quickly led inside hitler's
room to which hitler immediately puts
her in a typing position hitler then
dictates the words to be typed but
troudou finds his diction quite fast
prompting her to stop as if to catch her
breath hitler then tells her to try
again afterwards traudo goes outside her
room gloomily only to immediately change
into joy when she announces that hitler
gave her a job making the other ladies
happy for her the film then transitions
to two and a half years later on
hitler's birthday trado wakes up from
the sound of artillery hitler angrily
asks why there are sounds of artillery
in berlin rudolf his officer tells him
that the killer is on the line hitler
angrily tells him that the russians are
too close for comfort after dropping the
call he then tells his officers that it
is outrageous that no one had informed
him of the enemy already closing in
words himmler and figgerline walk in
inside a room full of high-ranking
officials himder then tells figaline
hitler should retreat somewhere or else
the whole rack would fall with him
shortly after hitler enters the room
with his hands behind his back shaking
uncontrollably a sign of his illness the
officers then gave a salute to the fura
in the next scene various files are
being burned in the building due to the
operation class vits being underway
learning that berlin will be a frontline
city and that the government officials
are to retreat immediately an officer
named schneck questions his superiors
telling them that the soldiers will not
be given food if the operation continues
back in the room full of high-ranking
officials hitler is concluding their
meeting with each officer giving him a
salute and handshake upon reaching
himmler himmler immediately tells hitler
that it is not too late to use politics
to communicate with the allies but
hitler stubbornly refuses himmler
privately tells figaline that he will
communicate with the allies behind
hitler's back figure warns him that this
is treason but himmler insists on
continuing just then albert's spear
arrives but himmler leaves his presence
immediately in the next scene hitler
inspects the model spear has constructed
commenting how impressive it is and that
that is his vision for glendon commons
that hitler needs to leave berlin if he
wants his vision to be fulfilled so is
traudo who tells him that the russians
are closing in however hitler's wife and
spear implores hitler to stay in berlin
meanwhile on the streets of berlin
families flee as russians close in on
the city one father admonishes the
hitler you child soldiers for defending
the city when they should be doing other
things upon hearing that his son has
destroyed two enemy tanks and will be
soon awarded a medal the father tells
the children that the war is already
lost his son then calls him a coward and
runs away
back in the bunker hitler wants the 9th
division army to continue fighting until
the last man but his officers implored
that they will be wiped off without
anything in return hitler then tells
them that another army can join the 9th
division but one of his officers jodel
tells him that this army is moving west
to protect them from americans still
hitler originally tells you adele that
this is his order at this point an
officer enters telling hitler that he
and his army will protect berlin until
the last man but he has concerns over
the millions of citizens still in berlin
hitler then coolly tells him that there
are no civilians in such a war
afterwards yodel and the other officers
understandably talk about how hitler is
simply losing it with his commands
figalinden tells them that they should
do something but udyl and bergdorf
remind him that they are still loyal to
the fuhrer even if they are angry
outside the bunker the hitler ute is in
line to receive the medals from hitler
the boy from earlier peter krontz is
personally praised by hitler for his
courage in destroying two tanks he then
tells the children that they will be
heralded as heroes after they win the
war meanwhile traudoline the two other
women discussed the war that night shank
and another soldier talk beside some
burning papers in the next scene eva
hitler's wife invites people in the
bunker to a party upstairs they then
march toward a ballroom to have fun
despite the war meanwhile hitler
discusses with spear that if the enemy
arrives in berlin they should see
nothing but a wasteland ultimately
denying the german people the means to
survive
the party that eva initiated continues
with eva encouraging everyone there to
enjoy the evening affair eva is then
pulled aside by fingerling with him
telling eva to convince hitler to flee
or die upon hearing this eva wants to
dance more when a bomb momentarily stops
the event eva invites everyone to dance
still showing that this is how she wants
to cope with the war throttle begins to
feel disoriented by what she sees
telling her friend that it seems unreal
like a dream shortly after a bomb that
is too close for comfort permanently
stops the party in the next scene a
general vitaling is being accused of
leaving his command post which is
equated to treason a crime punishable by
death because of this he goes to the
bunker with the soldiers to clear his
name in actions afterwards vitalin sits
beside the drunken officers questioning
if the future really needs him just then
an officer arrives to inform him that
hitler is impressed with his report
thereby promoting him as the commander
of berlin's defense but wilding seems to
regret having this responsibility in the
next scene the russians are starting to
close in the city peter attempts to
attack the approaching tank but he is
met with heavy gunfire prompting him to
leave meanwhile in the bunker raudel
asks an officer if the sound she's
hearing is artillery fire and her friend
comments that steiner should have
arrived by now to deliver a counter
attack against the germans figalen then
pulls the two ladies aside telling them
to leave while they have a chance but
traudel and her friend still believes
hitler's vision of steiner's
counterattack figalinden enters the war
room
inside the officers fearfully informed
hitler that steiner's counterattack did
not arrive because he could not mobilize
enough men hitler then takes off his
glasses telling the officers to leave
except kaitel yodel krebs and burtoff
what follows is a loud and furious
terrain from hitler about how his
officers are cowards and traitors
traudol and the officers listen silently
outside even eva is alarmed by her
husband's rant
after hitler has exhausted himself he
then tells his officers that he is unfit
to lead in these conditions and that the
war is finally lost but adds that he
will not leave berlin telling them that
he would rather kill himself afterwards
hitler goes outside the room he then
tells troddle and her friend to leave as
if everything is lost eva then tells
hitler that she will not leave his side
and the couple shares a passionate but
sorrowful kiss after hitler leaves
fekeline then tells the other officers
that they are now free to do anything
because the fuhrer himself said he
hasn't fit the lead but the officers
remain loyal to hitler despite this
afterwards eva invites traudol and her
friend to go outside the bunker because
the attacks have stopped for a while
there they share only a brief moment of
freedom before they are attacked again
meanwhile while delivering first aid
kits shank witnesses an execution of old
civilians he also sees an accumulation
of both wounded soldiers and displayed
civilians
in the next scene an officer informs the
cheap propagandists of the nazis gobels
the man he deployed are inexperienced
telling him that they are dying in vain
gobel's then coldly replies that he
feels no sympathy and that the german
people have chosen their fate the moment
they voted the nazis to power afterwards
hitler discusses with eva thraldel and
her friend that the most efficient way
of killing oneself is by shooting at the
mouth but eva wants to die by suicide
pill
traudol and her friend also request to
have their suicide pills which hitler
graciously provides shortly after both
eva and gobel's wife writes a letter to
their family with eva addressing her
sister and gobel's wife addressing her
son while this is happening a montage of
various events is shown in the next
scene peter runs deep in the night when
he encounters his friend from the hitler
youth but they are already dead he then
flees from the area later falling in a
ditch and losing consciousness when he
regains consciousness it is already
morning the following day
meanwhile goring delivers a message to
hitler that as vice chancellor he will
immediately assume office should hitler
not stop him from doing so hitler
clearly angered by this attempt of
usurpation orders that gouring is
tripped off his ranks while this is
happening speer arrives in the bunker
making eva illiterate because it will
make her husband happy that speer is
still by his side however spear informs
her that he is actually planning to
leave and is saying goodbye to hitler
afterwards speer goes talk with hitler
personally after hitler tells them that
he is at least proud of what he's done
speer then admits that he never followed
through with hitler's order to turn
berlin into a wasteland but somehow
hitler did not get angry even accepting
spears leaving but with a noticeable
silent contempt
in the next scene hitler goes to dinner
with his high-ranking officials telling
them that he never relies on compassion
because it is weakness while he is
speaking a message is delivered to him
himdler had just negotiated with the
enemy this news angers him because
himmler is supposed to be his loyal
officer yet even he goes behind hitler's
back after telling the others to leave
except for gobbles and two other
officers he then starts to go on a
terrain against himmler and how they
will unrealistically win the war through
an unrealistic numbers of armies and
weapons
after refusing an officer's request to
leave with his family another officer
informs hitler that figalian is missing
hitler angrily insists on fighting him
and that he is to be executed for
desertion if he cannot be found after
this the officer whose request has been
denied committed suicide with his family
meanwhile figaline is caught and
promptly executed for treason this is
despite eva's plea to spare his
brother-in-law for some reason hitler
still believes in a counterattack
against the russians even telling
high-ranking officials that it will
arrive and turn the tides of war in the
next scene traudol wakes up from her bed
as she passes the hallway she notices
that the soldiers are talking about
suicide disturbing her shortly after
arriving where hitler is hitler then
dictates to her his political statement
she then continues to type in a room and
shortly after hitler finally marries eva
afterwards in the war room hitler
finally learns through a report that the
counter-attack against the russians
cannot be carried out however he still
insists on not surrendering even
ordering his officers not to do so after
getting out of the room hitler then
instructs his officers that he and his
wife will commit suicide and he wants
his body to be burned so that the
russians cannot have it his officers
then calls for the procurement of
gallons of gasoline in the next scene
shank a doctor and a nurse are called to
the bunker there hitler talks to the
doctor privately while shank and the
nurse wait outside with the drunken
officers after telling the company that
he has to use the bathroom because he is
not used to drinking anymore shank then
overhears a doctor in hitler's
discussion about the effective suicide
after finishing his bathroom break shank
also witnesses hitler's dog being fed
with a suicide bill meanwhile eva talks
to traddle about hitler telling her that
she does not know his husband at all
after trado suddenly cries eva gives her
coat to her as a gift eva then asks her
to leave the city hitler then says
farewell to a few people including
traudol troddle immediately leaves after
hitler enters his room however she stops
when she sees gobble's children gobble's
wife even pleads with hitler but his
decision has been made eventually hitler
and eva have committed suicide and his
officers announces it to the bunker
immediately hitler and his wife's bodies
are burned outside the bunker because
hitler is dead gobbles is now the new
viewer krebs delivers a message to the
russians to have a peaceful negotiation
but the russians refused this wanting
the germans to surrender instead gobels
is fears because he does not want to
submit in the next scene gobal's wife
administers a drink to make her children
sleep shortly after gobels dictates to
traddle his political statement gobel's
wife returns to her children and gives
them the suicide pills meanwhile troudle
and the others prepare to leave the
bunker while this is happening a string
of tragic events occurs krebs and
burgdov committed suicide wildling
announces the surrender of germany peter
finding his parents have died and
gobbles committing suicide on the other
hand drauda and the others escape the
city step by step sneaking past the
enemy through walking to the subway and
passing by a bridge upon reaching a
meet-up place shank tells troddle and
her friend to try and pass by the
russians because they are women troddle
tells her friend to come along but her
friend refuses meanwhile some nazi
soldiers still firmly hold a belief in
dying for their country as stradal walks
towards the russians peter suddenly
walks in and holds her hand together the
russians allowed them to pass by after
announcing surrender some nazis followed
through with their desire to die for
their country by killing themselves
instead
the film ends with draudel and peter
escaping by a bicycle which is afterward
followed by the fate of the surviving
german soldiers and the continuation of
traudo's interview from earlier telling
the audience that she regrets not
choosing differently thank you so much
for watching if you enjoyed this video
please hit the like button and also
subscribe to my channel for more videos
like this see you in the next video